# Stem-Cell-Database-Management-System
##INTRODUCTION
Stem cells serve as the repair system of the body with special capabilities that are especially important in early and later stages of life. These cells have the potential to develop into many different types of cells in the body. Stem cells originate from two main sources, adult body tissues and embryos. Stem cells provide new cells for the body to grow and replace specialized cells that are damaged or lost. Adult stem cells exist throughout the body from the time an embryo develops. Most blood cells are specialized to perform functions, such as red blood cells that carry oxygen around the blood, but they do not multiply. Stem cells provide new cells for the body as it multiplies and replace damaged or lost or diseased cells. In the past few years, stem cell therapy has been benefited many diseases. A stem cell donation bank will be established in a single location or in any of the hospitals. This stem cell data consists of availability of stem cell, donors, recipients, and price of different type of cells. Database consists of past and present data available like the donors and recipient’s information, list of type of cells, and their availability. User manual consists of how the database can be accessed by a doctor and the analyst. Step by Step procedure will be explained with proper screen shots.

##BUSINESS SCOPE
The previous years has seen an incredibly quick expansion in the quantity of recently settled stem cell data. The rapid growth of stem cell companies is being driven by accelerated funding for stem cell therapies, Increased interest among pharmaceutical companies in stem cell partnerships, Use of cell therapies in the treatment of Covid-19 complications, such as immune and respiratory complications, rising number of stem cell therapy trails underway worldwide. Further market growth is expected to come from government funding for the development of cellular therapies for cancer. Research and Markets is even more bullish, estimating that the global stem cell therapy market will grow at a compound annual growth rate of 28 percent from 2020 to 2025, reaching US$20.87 billion. The report’s authors attribute this growth to the rising prevalence of chronic diseases. Some of top companies who are working widely on stem cells are Moderna, BioNTech, Prothena, Brainstorm Cell Therapeutics etc.,

##BUSINESS PROBLEM
Some potential companies like Moderna, BioNTech who are extensively are using stem cells in their research domain. Since stem cells are now being widely used in medical field, a lot of research is being done on them. Many stem cell products such as Pluripotent stem cells, Neural stem cells, Cancer stem cells, Hematopoietic stem cells are being used for treatment of patients suffering from diseases such as type 1 diabetes, Parkinson's disease, Spinal cord injury, Alzheimer's disease, cancer etc.  For these type of research purposes, data should be integrated as part of an effective data management system like ours. Since the first release of human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), there has been an expedition in the number of iPSC lines and availability of related information worldwide. This notable advancement in the healthcare industry has not only rapid studies of regenerative medicine but also provided ample opportunities to understand such practical problems as the quality of pluripotent stem cells and the disorder mechanisms. Stem cell banks and databases are expected to provide crucial information on individual stem cell lines. The exchange of data among the globally distributed stem cell banks is minimal, however, based on the available information, the scientific reproducibility of the stem cells has been proved to be problematic for both basic research and clinical applications due to lack of a standardized format. Additionally, as the categorization of cell lines is expected to advance in the future, the addition of new quality standards has complicated and diversified data formats among stem cell banks and registries, which has created issues for the research institutions select the stem cell lines for research purposes. With the expanding number of registered stem cell lines, the existing data deposition formats have made it tough for both data depositors and users to seek and obtain information regarding several cell lines collected under numerous different projects. In our project, we are going to collect and merge the information regarding globally distributed stem cell banks, cell lines and store the information in the database in a standardized format which could be effortlessly accessed by the researchers and users.
 
##HIGHLIGHTS OF OUR DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
	Integrated stem cell database management system so that it covers majority of stem cell resources.
	Minimum but efficient access to information on stem cell lines based on certain guidelines.
	Removing the cell line redundancy which is present in major stem cell database management systems.
	Including cell lines from countries which are identified as top countries working on stem cell research around the globe.
	Diverse human cell information to support a wide range of research.
	Extracted data from the largest stem cell line data in the world which is the collaboration of ICSCB(Integrated Collection of Stem Cell Bank Data) and SHOGoiN(Human Omics database for the Generation of iPS and Normal Cells.
	Addresses the problem of standardized data format which is usually lacking in several search websites of stem cells.

